URL: https://www.utrgv.edu/cost-and-aid/financial-aid/index.htm
TITLE: Financial Aid | UTRGV
CHECKED_AT: 1772768419.0260522
CACHE_HIT: False

Financial Aid | UTRGV skip to main content The University of Texas Rio Grande
Valley myUTRGV GIVE Open Search Menu Open navigation menu Search Clear Search
myUTRGV GIVE Explore Programs Apply Now Visit Campus Request Info Admissions
Academics Cost and Aid Student Life Research Current Students Athletics Events
Arts Events Directory Newsroom About Work at UTRGV Faculty Resources Staff
Resources myUTRGV GIVE The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley Financial Aid
Financial barriers should never stop motivated students from completing their
education at a world-class university. At UTRGV, we will do everything in our
power to make sure they don't. Home Cost & Financial Aid Financial Aid Scroll
Down In This Section Menu Cost & Financial Aid Overview Cost of Attendance
Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Explore Financial Assistance Depending on your
family's income and your academic and extracurricular accomplishments to date,
financial aid may be available to you in several different forms. Types of
Financial Assistance Type Description Scholarships These funds do not require
repayment and are awarded based on merit, need, and achievement in academics,
athletics, the arts, or other scholarly areas. Grants Do not require repayment
and are awarded based on financial need. Loans Are available at the state and
federal levels and repayment typically begins six months after you have
graduated or dropped to less than half-time status. There are also parent loan
programs. Work-Study These programs and campus employment will enable you to
earn money that can offset educational costs. Other Assistance There are other
forms of financial assistance, including institutional aid programs, tuition
funding for military veterans and their families, and waiver programs from the
state of Texas that allow certain out-of-state or nonresident students to pay
in-state tuition. Apply for Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Advantage Loans
Financial Aid Timeline September Begin your own scholarship search during the
fall by accessing free online scholarship search engines. October UTRGV
Excellence Scholarship Application becomes available to entering freshmen,
transfer, and current students. VAMOS/UTRGV Endowed Scholarship Application
becomes available to entering freshmen. November Registration for Spring
semester continues. If you were selected for verification, please submit the
required documents to our UTRGV Financial Aid Office as soon as possible to
prevent a delay in your financial aid awarding. December December 1st UTRGV
Excellence Scholarship application deadline for Entering Freshmen. 2025-2026
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) available 2025-2026 Texas
Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) available Satisfactory Academic
Progress (SAP) is reviewed after Fall semester grades are posted. Shortly
before the Holiday Break, your Spring semester student bill is sent to your
UTRGV email reflecting a tuition due date. December 15th Summer Financial Aid
Notification becomes available to current students interested in taking classes
during the summer. January Spring semester tuition is due and refund process is
initiated 10 days before the first day of class. February February 1st UTRGV
Excellence Scholarship application deadline for current and transfer students.
Priority admissions deadline. February 15 VAMOS/UTRGV Endowed Scholarship
application deadline (Freshmen only). Priority Deadline to submit 2025-2026
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or 2025-2026 Texas
Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) April April 1st Tuition advantage
priority deadline to submit the 2025-2026 Free Application for Federal Student
Aid (FAFSA) or Texas Application for State Aid (TASFA) April 15th Deadline to
be considered for many state programs. This is a critical month for High School
Senior as they start receiving award letters from different universities. Make
sure to review them carefully and compare the different options to determine
what fits your budget. Consider loan amounts needed to be borrowed and expenses
incurred when staying at a local University vs out of the area. After Spring
semester study days, your Summer I Student Bill will be sent to your UTRGV
email reflecting a tuition due date. May Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)
is reviewed after Spring Semester grades are posted. June June 1st Deadline for
scholarship recipients to enroll at UTRGV for the upcoming Fall semester.
Deadline for Entering Freshmen awarded a UTRGV Excellence Scholarship to submit
a Thank You letter. Remember, even though the priority deadline has passed, it
is not too late to apply for Financial Aid by submitting your FAFSA or TASFA.
If you were selected for verification, please submit the required documents to
the UTRGV Financial Aid Office as soon as possible to prevent a delay in your
financial aid awarding. At the end of June, your Summer II student bill will be
sent to your UTRGV email reflecting a tuition due date. July July 1st Housing
Scholarship recipients - deadline to submit a Housing Application. If borrowing
student loans, complete your Entrance Loan Counseling and Promissory Note.
August During the second week of August, your Fall Student Bill will be sent to
your UTRGV email reflecting a tuition due date. If you notice you will have
money left over from your financial aid, we encourage you to set up your Direct
Deposit through ASSIST. The Fall student refund process will be initiated 10
days before the first day of class. We encourage you to verify that all aid has
been accepted and all necessary items have been submitted to ensure you will
receive your funds during this first refund cycle. New Students: Submit/complete
your admissions application at www.applytexas.org First day of class is on
August 26th. Frequently Asked Questions How early should I apply for the FAFSA?
Students are strongly encouraged to take advantage and submit the FAFSA for the
2025-2026 year as soon as it opens in December. Completing a FAFSA as early as
possible allows students to: Have an opportunity to receive financial aid
programs that may be limited in funding. Have additional time to make
corrections to the FAFSA, if necessary. Have additional time to submit
additional documents that may be required to complete the application. What do I
need to complete the FAFSA? In order to complete the 2025-2026 FAFSA Students
will need: SSN for student and parents (if applicable) Permanent Resident Card
(for students that are not U.S Citizens) 2023 Tax Returns (for student and
parent, if applicable) 2023 W-2s (for student and parent, if applicable) FSA ID
(for student and parent, if applicable). If forgotten can be retrieved at
www.fafsa.gov Other pertinent 2023 income information such as child support
paid and received and benefits information. Where can I complete the FAFSA? The
2025-2026 FAFSA application can be completed online at www.fafsa.gov. UTRGV
FAFSA School Code: 003599 Will it be difficult to complete the FAFSA? Consent
and approval are required to retrieve federal tax information from each
participant on the FAFSA form. With consent, we can automatically obtain your
tax info from the IRS to complete the form. Without consent, the student will
be ineligible for federal aid, including grants and loans, even if a
participant didn't file taxes. Providing consent can speed up the FAFSA process
by importing the latest tax data. Consent remains valid for the 2025-26 FAFSA
and must be renewed annually. If consent is declined, participants must manually
provide income info, and the student will not be eligible for federal aid. What
if I need assistance with completing the FAFSA? Students can receive assistance
at the U Central computer lab area located on the first floor of the Student
Services Building on the Edinburg campus and at the Tower on the Brownsville
campus. U Central hours are Monday-Friday 8:00 AM-5:00 PM. What if I have
additional questions? For questions, students can contact us via
www.utrgv.edu/ucentral/financial-aid-faq, call us at 888-882-4026 or visit us
at U Central. UTRGV Tuition Advantage Launching in Fall 2022, this program will
cover the cost of tuition and mandatory fees for students with a
family-adjusted gross income of $125,000 or less.
